# kintsuGI

# Purpose

The purpose of this repo is to extract, collate, clean, analyse and visualise genomic instability (GI) data from ovarian cancer testing at the North West Genomic Laboratory Hub.
This data may be used for publications.

# Naming conventions

This project will use the following naming conventions.

**Data sources:**

-   dnadb: data from the DNA Database, also referred to as DLIMS

-   igene: data from iGene

-   sdrive: any data located on the internal S drive

**Genetic tests:**

-   glvar: germ-line variant data.
    Data generated by next generation sequencing for analysis of germline (i.e inherited) sequence variants.
    This refers to test directory indication R207 for inherited ovarian cancer.

-   tvar: tumour variant data.
    Data generated by next generation sequencing for analysis of somatic sequence variants, often referred to as "tumour BRCA" or "tBRCA".

-   gi: genomic instability results.
    Results for assessment of genomic instability, such as using shallow whole genome sequencing with the SeqOne SomaHRD pipeline.

**Identifiers:**

-   labno: the laboratory number or "DNA number" used on DNA Database.

-   rno: the iGene R number

-   nhsno: the patient's NHS number

-   ws: the worksheet the sample was tested on (WS followed by 6 digits)

filepath: the full filepath for a file, including the filename

filename

Verbs

collate: collate together (i.e. vertical stacking)

join: join via a key

extract:

# What does kintsugi mean?

[Kintsugi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kintsugi) is a Japanese art of repairing broken pottery.
The philosophy of kintsugi posits that breaking and rejoining are "part of the history of an object, rather than something to disguise".
This project aims to join data from multiple aspects of ovarian cancer testing, without trying to disguise this.
As the last two letters of kintsugi can also stand for "Genomic Instability" I have capitalised them in the repo name.
